[Music]
Cloud is a godsend
for data scientists.
Primarily because you're
able to take [the] your data,
take your information
and put it in the Cloud,
put it in a central
storage system.
It allows you to bypass
the physical limitations of
the computers and
the systems you're
using and it allows you to deploy
the analytics and
storage capacities
of advanced machines that
do not necessarily have to
be your machine or your
company's machine.
Cloud allows you not just
to store large amounts of
data on servers somewhere
in California or in Nevada,
but it also allows you to deploy
very advanced computing
algorithms and
the ability to do
high-performance computing
using machines that
are not yours.
Think of it as you have
some information,
you can't store it,
so you send it to storage space,
let's call it Cloud,
and the algorithms
that you need to use,
you don't have them with you.
But then on the Cloud,
you have those
algorithms available.
So What you do is you deploy
those algorithms on
very large datasets and
you're able to do it even
though your own systems,
your own machines, your
own computing environments
were not allowing you to do so.
So Cloud is beautiful.
The other thing that Cloud is
beautiful for is that it allows
multiple entities to work
with same data at the same time.
You can be working
with the same data
that your colleagues in say
Germany and another team in India
and another team in Ghana,
they are collectively working and
they're able to do so
because the information,
and the algorithms,
and the tools,
and the answers, and the results,
whatever they needed is
available at a central place,
which we call Cloud.
Cloud is beautiful.
Using the Cloud enables you
to get instant access to open
source technologies
like Apache Spark
without the need to install
and configure them locally.
Using the Cloud also gives you
access to the most
up-to-date tools and
libraries without the worry of
maintaining them and ensuring
that they are up to date.
The Cloud is accessible from
everywhere and in
every time zone.
You can use cloud-based
technologies
from your laptop,
from your tablet,
and even from your phone,
enabling collaboration more
easily than ever before.
Multiple collaborators or teams
can access the data
simultaneously,
working together on
producing a solution.
Some big tech companies
offer Cloud platforms,
allowing you to
become familiar with
cloud-based technologies in
a pre-built environment.
IBM offers the IBM Cloud,
Amazon offers Amazon
Web Services or AWS,
and Google offers
Google Cloud platform.
IBM also provides Skills
Network labs or SN labs
to learners registered at any of
the learning portals on the
IBM Developer Skills Network,
where you have access to tools
like Jupyter Notebooks and Spark
clusters so you can create
your own data science project
and develop solutions.
With practice and familiarity,
you will discover how
the Cloud dramatically
enhances productivity
for data scientists.
[Music]